IN TROD UG'TION. xi λ

the high office of praetor, which he acquired in the
year 47, the next after the battle of Pharsalia. This
appointment restored him to· a place in the Senatc.
He was employed in the following year in 'Caesar’s
campaign in Africa, against the remnant of the sena-
torial party under Scipio and Cato, Upon its success-
ful termination, he was left there as governor of the
province of Numidia, which, upon the death of its
king J uba, was incorporated with the possessione of
the republic. It does not appear that he continued
in this post beyond the usual term of one year3 yet,
in that short time, he contrived to amass the vast
treasures for which he became afterwards notorious.
His countrymen were shocked at the alleged profli—
gacy of his conduct, especially, as we are told, after

’ the vehement indignation he had expressed in his

writings against the corruption and extortion of the
Roman 11011168. See Dion’s Roman History, xliii. 9.

καὶ τοῦς Νομάδας λαβὼν ’ἐς τε *ro ὑπήκοον ἐπήγαγε, καὶ

r τῷ Σαλουστίῳ, λόγῳ μὲν, ἄρχειν, ἔργῳ δὲ, ἄγειν τε καὶ

φέρειν ἐπέτρεψε. ἆμξλει καὶ ἐδωροδόκησε πολλὰ καὶ
ἥρπασεν· ὥστε καὶ κατηγορηθῆναι αἰσχύὶιην αἰσχίστην
ὅφλῆσαι, ὅτι τοιαῦτα συγγράμματα συγγράψας, καὶ πολλὰ

, καὶ πικρὰ περὶ τῶν ἐκκαρπουμένων τινας εἴτι-ὣν, οὐκ ἐμιμή-

σατο τῷ ἔργῳ τούς λόγους. Sallust was even menaced
with an impeachment for the spoliation of his pro-
vince3 but it does not appear that he was brought
to trial. He returned to Rome and formed the
magnificent gardenS, known by his name, on the

